Title: Big Data Conundrum
Date: 2014-07-27
Tags: big data, apple

Interesting piece by [Sendhil Mullainathan][nyt] in the NY Times: 

>Still, if attention on new devices is what makes old ones feel slow, why are the spikes on Apple product release dates, and not when the company announces the new products? In 2008, for example, the iPhone3G was announced a full month before its release. There was a spike at the release, but not at the announcement.

>This data has an even more benign explanation. Every major iPhone release coincides with a major new operating system release. Though Apple would not comment on the matter, one could speculate — and many have — that a new operating system, optimized for new phones, would slow down older phones. This could also explain the Samsung-iPhone difference: Because only 18 percent of Android users have the latest operating systems on their phones, whereas 90 percent of iPhone users do, any slowdown from a new operating system would be naturally bigger for iPhones.


I'm not sure that these are the *only* two possible reasons for the spike in searches for the iPhone around the release dates however. Wouldn't people who are contemplating a purchase of the new phone also be searching for information on all the new features? 

The larger point of the article is spot-on though, "big data" can uncover patterns but the mechanisms behind those patterns need to be identified by other means.

[nyt]: http://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/27/upshot/hold-the-phone-a-big-data-conundrum.html?hpw&action=click&pgtype=Homepage&version=HpHedThumbWell&module=well-region&region=bottom-well&WT.nav=bottom-well&_r=0

